- [Instructor] Let's cover the next GitOps principle,
which requires changes to the system
to be delivered with automation.
Okay, let's unpack that some.
We know git commits are the only way
to change the system's blueprints or desired state.
In GitOps, once the commit occurs,
deployment of the actual change is automated.
We've touched on this before.
A commit is made against Git,
the desired state is updated,
then it's pulled into the system by an operator that applies
the changes to the running system.
Once the blueprints are updated by the commit,
all the work in GitOps to deploy the change
is done with automation.
Now let's talk a little bit about what this principle
doesn't allow for.
If we get a new idea for the system and directly
make the change against it,
we violate this principle because GitOps doesn't allow us
to apply changes outside of the automated procedures.
So if you're familiar with SSHing into a box
or running kubctl apply, you'll need to adjust and allow
the automated agents to handle shipping your changes.
Giving up that access to adhere to this principle
comes with benefits.
Automation allows changes to be delivered
through standard workflows that are easier for developers
to use because they only require Git
and Git is such a well-known tool.
Automation also standardizes your delivery procedures,
making system operations more consistent and predictable.
This principle also delivers huge security advantages
because the automated agents run inside the system.
This allows you to restrict access and limit the exposure
of sensitive details of the system like management APIs,
or credentials.
There's some finer points to automating how you deliver
system changes that we'll dive into deeper,
when we take a closer look at GitOps practices,
but let's move on to close things out
with our final principle.